New Delhi:
Reaffirming a strategic partnership, India and Brazil on Saturday signed 15 agreements as Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks with Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro who will also be the chief guest at the Republic Day parade on Rajpath on Sunday. India wants to open up its relations with Latin American countries, and Brazil could become New Delhi’s gateway to the continent.
Views 125 Shares2View on page
Xi warns virus spreading fast, China facing ‘grave situation’
1,400 Infected, 41 Dead, Including Doctor
China Widens Curbs
Virus Reaches Oz, Europe
Beijing:
President Xi Jinping said China was facing a “grave situation” as the death toll from the coronavirus outbreak jumped to 41, overshadowing celebrations of the Lunar New Year that began on Saturday.
China also announced further transport restrictions. With more than 1,400 people infected worldwide, most of them in China, Hong Kong declared a virus emergency, scrapped celebrations and restricted links to mainland China.
Australia confirmed its first four cases on Saturday, Malaysia confirmed four and France reported Europe’s first cases on Friday, as health authorities around the world scrambled to prevent a pandemic. In Hong Kong, with five confirmed cases, the city’s leader Carrie Lam said flights and high speed rail trips between the city and Wuhan will be halted. Schools in Hong Kong that are currently on Lunar New Year holidays will remain closed until February 17.
Xi held a politburo meeting on Saturday on measures to fight the “accelerating” outbreak, state television reported. The death toll in China has risen to 41, authorities reported on Saturday, up from 26 a day earlier. As of 6pm local time, 1,372 people in China had been infected with the virus — traced to a seafood market in Wuhan that was illegally selling wildlife.
The virus has also been detected in Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Nepal, and US.
In Hubei province, where Wuhan is located, officials appealed for masks and protective suits. “We are steadily pushing forward the disease control and prevention ... But right now we are facing an extremely severe public health crisis,” Hu Yinghai, deputy director-general of the civil affairs department, said.
Ride-hailing giant Didi Chuxing said it was halting inter-city services to and from Beijing from Sunday, while the capital will also stop running inter-province shuttle buses. State broadcaster CCTV, citing an announcement from China's tourism industry association, said the country would halt all group tours, both at home and abroad, from Monday.
Wuhan said it would ban non-essential vehicles from its downtown starting Sunday, further paralysing a city of 11 million that has been on virtual lockdown since Thursday, with nearly all flights cancelled and checkpoints blocking the main roads leading out of town. Authorities have since imposed transport restrictions on nearly all of Hubei province, which has a population of 59 million.
Australia confirmed its first four cases in two different cities on Saturday, and the country’s chief health official said he expected more cases as Australia is a popular destination for Chinese tourists.
State-run China Global Television Network reported on Saturday that a doctor who had been treating patients in Wuhan, 62-year-old Liang Wudong, had died from the virus.
US coffee chain Starbucks said it was closing all its outlets in Hubei province for the weeklong Lunar New Year holiday, following a similar move by McDonald’s in five Hubei cities. Workers in white protective suits checked temperatures of passengers entering the subway at Beijing’s central railway station on Saturday, while some train services in the eastern Yangtze River Delta region were suspended, the local railway operator said.
There are fears transmission could accelerate as hundreds of millions of Chinese travel during the Lunar New Year holiday, although many have cancelled their plans. Shanghai Disneyland was closed from Saturday. Beijing’s Lama Temple, where people make offerings for the new year, has also closed, as have some other temples.
The WHO this week stopped short of calling the outbreak a global health emergency. A report by infectious disease specialists at Imperial College, London on Saturday said that despite this, the epidemic “represents a clear and ongoing global health threat" adding: “It is uncertain at the current time whether it is possible to contain the continuing epidemic within China”. REUTERS


