New Delhi:
Reaffirming a strategic partnership, India and Brazil on Saturday signed 15 agreements as Prime Minister Narendra Modi held talks with Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro who will also be the chief guest at the Republic Day parade on Rajpath on Sunday. India wants to open up its relations with Latin American countries, and Brazil could become New Delhi’s gateway to the continent.
JNU student linked to Shaheen Bagh stir booked for sedition
Imam’s Speech An Open Call For Jihad, Says BJP
Anuja Jaiswal & Prabin Kalita TNN
Agra/Guwahati:
Aligarh police on Saturday booked JNU student Sharjeel Imam for sedition, days after the purported video of a speech he had delivered at Aligarh Muslim University on January 16 against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and NRC went viral on social media.
DIG (Aligarh) Akash Kulhary said Imam would be arrested soon. In the video, Imam, a software engineer who was involved with the Shahen Bagh protests in the early days, can be heard saying that if he can organise five lakh people, it would be possible to “permanently cut off Assam with the rest of India... if not permanently, then at least for a few months... only then will the government hear our voice”.
BJP called it an “open call for jihad and finishing the sovereignty of the country.”
However, a statement released by the women of Shaheen Bagh on their official twitter account said, “The protest has been led by the women of Shaheen Bagh and it is unfair to associate their voice with any distorted media narrative... We urge everyone to not be influenced by... claims made of representing this non-partisan citizen’s movement.”
Imam, who is from Patna and now lives in Delhi, studies modern Indian history at JNU and was a computer science postgraduate at IIT Bombay where he was later a teaching assistant. He did his schooling from DPS Vasant Kunj in Delhi and worked as IT programmer at the University of Copenhagen before coming to JNU.
He has been booked under sections 124 A (sedition), 153 A (provocation with intent to cause riots), 153 B (causing disharmony) and 505 (2) of the IPC at the Civil Lines police station. DIG Kulhary said, “During probe, it was found that the purported video, in which the suspect made some anti-national statements, was shot on the AMU campus when he was addressing protesting students.” The Assam Police also filed an FIR against Imam under similar charges.
In the video, Imam is heard saying: “The model of Shaheen Bagh protest is of road blockade, rest is secondary. Understand difference between chakka jam and dharna. Protest in every city, tell the people about chakka jam, prepare and then sit on national highways.”
BJP’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra shared the video on Twitter and later at a press conference at BJP headquarters in Delhi, called it an “open call for jihad and finishing the sovereignty of the country.”
BJP’s Patra first said Imam’s speech was made at Shaheen Bagh but later, when it became clear that it was at AMU, Patra said the new fact did not make the issue “less grave”.